Overview
Austin Community College District (ACC) is a nationally recognized college serving Central Texas as the primary gateway to higher education and technical training opportunities. Our mission is to provide open-door access to an affordable college education for students who want to earn a degree, learn a marketable skill, or advance their careers.

ACC takes pride in providing an extraordinary learning experience that puts every student on their path to success. Read the Mission & North Star and Vision & Values sections of this catalog for more information.

Mission & North Star
Mission
Austin Community College District (ACC) promotes student success and community development by providing affordable access, through traditional and distance learning modes, to higher education and workforce training, including appropriate applied baccalaureate degrees, in its service area.

To fulfill its mission, the College will provide, within its available resources, the mission elements prescribed by the State of Texas:

Vocational and technical programs of varying lengths leading to certificates or degrees.
Freshman- and sophomore-level academic courses leading to an associate degree or serving as the base of a baccalaureate degree program at a four-year institution.
Continuing adult education for academic, occupational, professional, and cultural enhancement.
Special instructional programs and tutorial services to assist underprepared students and others who need special assistance to achieve their educational goals.
A continuing program of counseling and advising designed to assist students in achieving their individual educational and occupational goals.
A program of technology, library, media, and testing services to support instruction.
Contracted instruction programs and services for area employers that promote economic development.
North Star
The Austin Community College District (ACC) is committed to enhanced learning success for all students.  ACC’s commitment is guided through North Star:  70% Completion by 2030.

The Austin Community College District (ACC) will establish institutional effectiveness measures designed to assess the College’s success in providing:

Balanced instructional offerings among the College’s mission elements.
A teaching and learning environment that encourages students to be active, life-long learners.
Accessible and affordable post-secondary and higher education programs and services for all who qualify and have the ability to benefit.
Enrollments reflecting diverse and traditionally underserved populations in numbers that represent the local populations of our Service Area.
Job placement from career workforce programs into family-wage careers.
Efficiently administered programs and services that create an institution that is a good place to work, learn, and otherwise experience the higher-education process.
Student success and institutional effectiveness measures and assessment results will be reviewed annually by the Board of Trustees as an indication of the College’s progress in achievement of its Strategic Plan.


Vision & Values
Vision
To love our students to success.

Values
As we continue to evolve toward our best possible college, Austin Community College District (ACC) prioritizes the well-being, growth, learning, and success of our students and employees. Our values reflect our dedication to fostering excellence, making a positive impact, and maintaining a culture of accountability within the ACC community. Every member of the ACC community is responsible for this positive and meaningful impact — and all administrators, faculty, and staff commit to modeling the way. Our values emphasize the importance of personal responsibility, integrity, and transparency with and for each other. Collaboration, mutual support, and unified community ensure that we are effective individually and collectively.

Courage
We believe in honesty and openness.
Compassion
We believe in empathy, kindness, and being other-centered in all we do.
Joy
It is our honor to work for our students and with each other.
Yes
We believe in being tenacious and resilient in fighting for our students.

Student Achievement of Goals & Outcomes
Graduation, Retention, & Transfer Rates
Title I of the Act, known as the “Student Right-to-Know Act,” requires Austin Community College District (ACC) to disclose institution-wide graduation rates of certificate- or degree-seeking, full-time students entering the institution.

As a result of the first baccalaureate degree implemented at ACC, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN), ACC’s reporting status for the Integrated Postsecondary Data System of the National Center for Education Statistics changed from a public two-year institution to a public four-year institution, effective fall 2018. Based on this new status, ACC’s four-year average graduation rate is 16 percent, the transfer-out rate is 35 percent, and the retention rate is 0 percent. The retention rate uses the full-time, first-time-in-college, bachelor’s degree cohort. Since ACC currently requires students entering into a bachelor’s degree program to already have an associate degree, this number will be 0.

Student Success Reports
Austin Community College District (ACC) is transforming the learning landscape with data-driven initiatives and processes that have far-reaching impacts on student achievement.

ACC’s Student Success Reports examine accomplishments in the critical areas of student access and entry, persistence and engagement, and completion and transfer/employment.

Instructional Philosophy
Austin Community College District (ACC) is committed to the belief that, in a free and democratic society, all persons should have a continuing opportunity to develop skills and knowledge as well as to enhance their understanding of the responsibilities in that society. The College takes as its guiding educational principle the proposition that, insofar as available resources permit, instruction should be adapted to student needs. This principle requires both flexibility in instructional strategies and maintenance of high academic standards.

Affiliations
The Austin Community College District (ACC) is recognized and sanctioned by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB). ACC is a member of the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) and the Texas Association of Community Colleges (TACC).


ACC Foundation
The Austin Community College (ACC) Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation established in 1991 to support ACC. It is led by a volunteer board of business and community leaders who raise funds in the community to allow for the growth of college initiatives. Over $35 million has been raised by the Foundation providing student scholarships, emergency funds, and program support to ACC. The Foundation’s permanent endowment stands at $16 million. In the last decade, the Foundation has awarded $12.5 million in scholarships and over half a million in emergency aid to ACC students.

Learn more about giving to the Foundation on the ACC Foundation website.

Alumni Network
The Austin Community College (ACC) Alumni Network is open to all former students who have earned a bachelor’s degree, an associate degree, or a certificate or completed at least 20 credit hours at ACC. Our mission is to promote and support our alumni and students in their educational, social, and professional endeavors and to foster a spirit of loyalty and lifelong connections to Austin Community College.

The ACC Alumni Network maintains contact with former students through a variety of social, professional growth, and community service opportunities. Students and alumni benefit from the experiences of all ACC alumni and others with extensive professional skills and knowledge through programming on the various campuses as well as local events. The Alumni Relations office works closely with Student Life, Career Services, and various academic departments to connect students with appropriate alumni for mentoring and networking.

The Student Government Association (SGA) appoints a student liaison to serve as an ad hoc member of the Alumni Network Advisory Council.

Visit Alumni Network for more information.

ACC Alumni Network Scholarship
The ACC Alumni Network Scholarship is awarded to one full-time student pursuing a certificate or associate degree at ACC. The award is based on the funds available for tuition, fees, and books. Learn more and make a gift at Alumni Network Scholarship. Students may apply online annually on the ACC Foundation Scholarship website.
