Student Resources
Finding an opportunity that interests you is half the battle. The next step is demonstrating to the employer that you are the right person for the job.  

As part of our services, the Office of Experiential Learning (OEL) Internship Program offers students* a variety of resources to help them develop their resumes, and prepare them for their internships applications and interviews.

Click herefor a checklist to help you prepare for your internship semester. It is your responsibility to have a position by the first day of your internship, co-op, or practicum semester. Follow the checklist for tips on finding and landing a role.

 

ACC Career & Transfer Services is available to support students in each step of their experiential learning journey. We can help you shape your future, beginning the day you enter our doors with visions of your future life in mind, all the way until you exit our college and land the university transfer spot or job that moves you onward in your career journey. We are eager to support you, not only in your ultimate career goal, but in gaining the insight, skills, learning experiences, and intermittent jobs that strengthen your opportunities and solidify you as the ideal, highly sought after candidate that employers are seeking.

Most employers require that you send a resume and cover letter. A well-written resume and cover letter increase your chances of being invited to an interview. Optimizing your resume utilizing career technology tools can get you past employer firewalls (applicant tracking systems or ATS). Properly preparing and practicing for an interview will help you close the deal and secure the position..  Employers are typically seeking individuals who fit into their work culture and will enhance their team. Your challenge is to demonstrate how you fulfill what the employer is seeking. Clearly articulating your personal competencies, as well as your job-related skills will often give you a competitive edge. “Personal competencies” include a variety of attributes employers are actively seeking in their ideal candidate (how well you communicate, your work ethic, your ability to interact with peers and supervisors successfully, favorable character traits, your leadership skills and problem solving ability, etc.). 

Current information is available through the ACC Career Resources web site and can be accessed by simply remembering “/career” (austincc.edu/career). The Career Ready portion of our website features specific events and opportunities associated with preparing for that ideal opportunity.  www.austincc.edu/students/career-services/career-ready

 

Below are some of the resources available to ACC students seeking Experiential Learning opportunities. These are designed  to support your progress toward your ideal career goal. 
 

1. Strategies for Today’s Jobs (AARX 3002) – This free Continuing Education course  is a comprehensive job search training program designed to specifically increase your employment opportunities in today’s current digital era. Students are encouraged to complete this 1-month long course the semester prior to enrolling for an internship, practicum, clinical, coop, or apprenticeship; prior to the semester of their graduation; or at any time when needing to secure employment or wanting to advance in their current career path. . The Strategies for Today’s Jobs course is a 16-hour, non-credit, free Continuing Education course (AARX 3002) spanning up 4-weeks, which is applicable to any paid or unpaid job opportunity in a student’s area of study. ACC seeks to be a catalyst for economic and social equity in Central Texas. In support of this objective, Strategies for Today’s Jobs intentionally incorporates strategies designed to equalize the playing field for individuals who may face barriers or biases in the hiring process. Students enrolled in Strategies for Todays Jobs receive:

1-on-1 career coaching 
Help preparing a personal brand and elevator pitch  
Insight regarding transferable skills
Guidance in writing targeted resumes and cover letters 
Resume analysis utilizing an AI system (artificial intelligence) to strengthen the potential of successfully navigating automated employer screening systems to secure an interview invitation
Face-to-face and remote interview practice with AI-driven interviewing technology
Networking experience 
Training in how to take advantage of Linkedin and Indeed’s advanced functionality
Salary negotiation skills 
Ongoing guidance after completing the course to help secure employment. 
 

2. Handshake

ACC’s Career Service platform, Handshake, is available via mobile app. Handshake can be downloaded immediately upon entry to ACC (requires ACC Gmail account) and connects students with important information and services to guide toward, and maintain focus on, career goals. Handshake provides quick access to:

a. Positions posted by employers seeking to hire ACC students and the ability to interact with them through Handshake

b. ACC Career Services staff 

c. Experiential learning opportunities 

d. Events such as job fairs, employer meet-ups, networking opportunities, university transfer activities, tips to maximize your experiential learning opportunities and job search, job and career preparation workshops, etc.

e. Feedback on resumes 

f. Numerous videos and tips for career exploration or to help stay on track toward your career objective  

Log in to Handshake with your ACC email, or schedule an appointment with a Career  Specialist for one-on-one assistance. 
3. LibGuides

These resources include a number of articles, videos and other resources that will help you with your resume, workplace skills, and interview strategies

4. The Office of Experiential Learning (OEL) Handbook

 

Self-Help Articles and Videos
We’ve collected additional video’s and articles listed below to assist you with resumes, soft skills and writing accomplishment statements.

Career Paths – Pursuing Your Passion– in this video a Princeton alumnus speaks about career paths and pursuing your passion.

6 Red Flags That Make Recruiters Pass on Your Resume – this article published by Fast Company, June 2017 discusses the do’s and don’t of resume writing.

5 Ways to Ruin Your Resume – this article published by Fast Company, June 2017 explores 5 ways you could be sabotaging your resume.

Google Recruiter Resume Tips – in this article, published by Fast Company, June 2017 A Former Google Recruiter Reveals the Biggest Resume Mistakes.

Soft Skills and You – This article reviews some of the “soft skills” not often listed in a job posting but are valuable to have. Food for thought …..Consider where you may have exhibited some of these skills and how you can incorporate statements into your resume and interview prep that highlight your “soft skills.”

Writing Accomplishment Statements  –  Accomplishment statements describe your achievements in the experience section of your resume, this article from career services at Princeton University published in August of 2017 provides  formula to assist you in evaluating and promoting your experience. Accomplished Writing Statements Worksheet

How to be the Perfect Intern – Internship Success– In this article learn what employers look for when seeking the perfect candidate for the job.

How to be the Best Intern Ever – Now that you landed the internship, here are 10 tips to help you develop your skills, build up your resume and learn to network with people working in your field.

*The OEL Internship Program does not work directly with students. Career Services is available to help students with their resumes, interview skills development, and LinkedIn.

512-223-0399
careers-group@austincc.edu

www.austincc.edu/career

Internship Information Sessions

Chips, Dips and Internships (In-person)
Tips, Tricks and Internships – (virtual via Zoom)
Please join us in-person or online to learn:
How the internship program works
Which ACC academic programs offer internships
Requirements, how to register & prepare for an internship
The Internship Experience: Insights from Current & Former ACC interns
Career Services and the services they provide
 

*In-person


 

October 1, 2025
12pm – 1:30pm
HLC 2000, Room 1550 (presentation room)
*Online


October 1, 2025
7pm – 8-pm via Zoom
Or
October 3, 2025
12:30pm – 1:30pm via Zoom
Zoom link and passcode will be sent to you prior to the event

Click HERE to register
 

*Note: Students may attend more than one session,
however the information covered in each session will be the same.
 

Brought to you by the Office of Experiential Learning and Career Services
 

 

Other Events:


Internship Opportunities
Listed below are just a few of the over 1300 companies that we are currently working with:

Apple
GTS Technology Solutions
Samsung Semiconductor
Visit Austin
Long Center
Illumitex, Inc
Emmis Austin Radio
Firefly Aerospace
Lucky Robot Japanese Kitchen
HEB
AFTV5
Blue Lark Entertainment
ACL Live
Zilker Media
Riverbend Church
Austin Film Society
Miller Imaging and Digital Solutions
Rodeo Austin
Texas Film Commission
Round Rock Express
Word of Mouth Catering
Virtex
Origen Biomedical
Whim Hospitality
Greystar
IRS
Shorty’s Wraps Inc
Austin Mac Repair LLC
New Republic Studios
City of Austin
Greater Austin Restaurant Association
Marshall Financial Services
Capital Factory
Interested in participating in an internship? Please contact the Department Chair within your area of interest or Area of Study.

Don’t see a company you’re interested in interning with?  Please contact our Office.
